>> This is "Secret
Life of Symbols."
>> Moses is one of the
most interesting characters
in the Bible.
I hope to show you why.
So we all know that Moses was
the prophet that brought down
the law to the Jewish people.
And he has become
the symbol for law
pretty much around the world.
So in talking about Moses,
you think about law.
But there's a lot more to Moses
that you need to know about.
Moses was a prophet in the
Jewish system of things.
He was one of the oldest
names in the Bible, one
of the most revered
figures in the Bible,
because he was supposedly
so close to God.
And he has given to the
world the 10 Commandments.
The history of Moses takes
us back to ancient Egypt
and to the Israelites
back in the time
of Egypt in ancient Egypt.
He was a very fierce
man for the truth,
and for leading the
people, and supposedly
the Jewish people,
the Hebrew people.
He was a major leader at the
time when they were in Egypt.
Because he went up
into the mountain
and got the 10
Commandments from God,
he became known
as the law giver.
The point we need to remember is
that Moses was a very important
man to the Hebrew people
and to the history
of the Jewish people in Egypt.
He was supposedly born
in Egypt and was bred
in the house of the princess.
And he was around
royalty continually.
And yet he had a love
for the Jewish God
and so he protected
the Jewish people.
And he became so important
to the history of the Hebrew
people at the time
of Egypt that today
he even is recognized as
a very important person
to remember in
history about law.
He was the one who led them out
of Egypt according to the story
that Egyptian life had become so
difficult for the Jewish people
and they wanted out of Egypt.
And so Moses was the
one who had the strength
to stand up before Pharaoh
and say let my people go
and we will leave out of Egypt.
And so this is even today still
remembered a very heroic deed
for Moses to step up and take
the leadership of the Hebrew
people, and walk out of
Egypt, and leave Egypt.
He took them up into
the north where we today
refer to it as Lebanon
and Israel, et cetera.
The most important
point I wish to make
is the fact that
there is so much
more to this ancient prophet
leader of the Hebrew people
than has been
discussed publicly.
And I want to talk about
some of those things.
Moses was called
by God to come up
into the mountain
of Mount Sinai.
And God was going to
give Moses what we now
refer to as the 10
Commandments, which was actually
a new dispensation
for Jewish law,
a brand new way to understand
the Jewish understanding
of God.
And so he goes up
into the mountain.
And he encounters
the presence of God.
And God gives him
10 Commandments
to bring back to the people
to begin a new dispensation,
a new understanding of God.
And so Moses comes
down from the mountain.
He sees the Jewish people still
worshipping God the old way.
They were worshipping
a golden calf,
because it had to do with the
particular astrological times
in which they were living.
And the times in which
they were living then
at the time of the
10 Commandments
was Taurus the Bull.
And so they were worshipping
the golden calf in relation
to Taurus the Bull.
Well, Moses comes down
and sees the Jewish people
still worshipping in the old
way and becomes very frustrated.
Before he even talks to them,
he becomes very frustrated
and then throws the law--
it was referred to as the law.
And so Moses throws down
the law and breaks the law.
So Moses was the
first law breaker.
He was carrying two stones
on which the laws, the 10
Commandments, were written.
And so he carries these down.
And then when he sees the
Jewish people still worshipping
they old way, he throws
those down in frustration.
And so that's where we get the
term today breaking the law.
The Jews were
worshipping the calf
because they realized
that they were
worshipping the sun in the
astrological age of Taurus
the Bull.
The next astrological
age of which
Moses was going to lead his
people into the next age
was going to be Aries the Ram.
And he was teaching
them that there
was a new way they were
going to worship God.
And this time they would
blow the ram's horn
to signify the age of
the Ram, the shofar.
Here we have pictures
showing that God
is handing Moses the Ten
Commandments on these tablets.
The tablets themselves
are very interesting,
the design and what
they were all about.
We find that there is a
very interesting connection
between the Ten
Commandments of the Hebrews
and the 12 Negative
Confessions of the Egyptians.
The Egyptians already
had 12 laws, so to speak.
And they were called the
12 Negative Confession.
And so when you read the
Negative Confessions and then
the Ten Commandments,
they are exactly the same.
The only difference
is one is in Egypt,
they said here are the
things we will not do.
It was a negative confession.
Here are the things
we will not do.
We will not lie.
We will not steal.
We will not do this
or that while the Ten
Commandments of the Lord
said you should not do this.
You should not do that.
That is very similar.
So we know basically where the
Ten Commandments came from,
from the 12 negative
confessions of Egypt.
Well, if you remember
that religion
itself is a development of human
creativity, and so many stories
in different religious
books around the world, so
many wonderful stories and
theological ideas and concepts
which obviously
were just made up
by men to promote their
particular religious belief.
But back to Moses
giving up the law,
that particular scene of Moses
with the Ten Commandments,
the very steles
and the very stones
themselves is very important.
Moses is always the law giver.
And the Jews today
still respect Moses
as probably one of the
most important people
in their history
besides Abraham.
You will see Moses in
pictures, and paintings,
and sculpturings,
Moses has horns.
And it's been a--
all around the world, people
have wondered why is it Moses,
he has horns.
And it's interesting
to understand what
the horns represent on Moses.
The horns of Moses--
and you will see that there
was, in the ancient world,
at Moses' time in that ancient
time, there was a moon god.
And the moon god's name was Sin.
And he was always represented by
the lower quarter of the moon.
And so the lower
quarter in the moon
was used as a symbol
for moon worship.
And they had goddesses of
moon worship, which you have.
Also, in Rome,
you had moon gods.
You know, the American--
Native Americans also have horns
because they counted their days
by many moons.
Their days were like
the Hebrews today.
After 6 o'clock began a new day.
It was the same thing
with the Native Americans.
So all of these people
from the ancient Hebrews
to the Native Americans were
using a lunar calendar--
lunar, simply meaning the moon.
And so the symbol for
the lunar was a horns
of the bull or the horns--
that which the Vikings used.
This is a symbol for
the lunar symbol,
which you'll find everywhere
in different religions.
These are the horns
that Moses wore.
Here in Israel,
you'll see carvings
of the arms raised to raise
and to praise the moon.
And Egyptian paintings
show the moon.
The Blessed Mother
in Christianity
stands on the moon.
You'll see the moon everywhere
in the ancient world
of religion, which
was showing us
that the moon was
very important, even
at the time of Moses in Egypt.
Moon worship was very prominent.
And of course today, the Islamic
world still uses the moon also.
And in the Western world, the
moon is still used as a symbol.
We're talking about a moon
cult many thousands of years
ago in Egypt, of which Moses
was the leader of the Hebrew
people, which were worshippers
of the moon, at that time.
If you go on the web and just
put in-- just type in, moon god
Sin, it will have all kinds
of information showing you
about how the moon was a very
important part of worship
in the ancient world.
And they will also tell you that
Moses was a leader of a lunar
cult. There's a lot of
information about the moon cult
and the moon god
Yahweh or Allah.
Here is a classic example in the
ancient world of the moon god
Sin.
The god himself was--
his name was called Sin.
And in the ancient
world, Ai was a mountain
in the times of ancient Egypt.
Ai was a mountain.
And so we have this moon god
Sin, and the mountain Ai--
put it together, and
it becomes Sinai.
So Mount Sinai is actually,
no, the moon god Sin
and the mountain of Sinai.
Well, Mount Sinai
today is felt to be
the center for and
the really foundation
for the Jewish religion,
as it began to spread
throughout the Middle East.
Mount Sinai was where
god met with Moses.
God met with his
people at Mount Sinai.
But Mount Sinai is
actually Sin Ai.
Now, it's interesting
that today,
in most of the Western world,
the word synagogue is spelled
S-Y-N-A. But in Israel, it's
S-I-N-A because Israel realizes
that the original word was S-I-N
not S-Y-N because of the moon
god Sin.
Synagogue basically
means temple of the moon
because Sin was the moon god.
I think it's
important to realize
that there's a difference
in the way it's spelled--
one way in Israel, and a
different way in the rest
of the world.
Here is just one of
many reference works.
This is by an Andrew Key
from the Southern Methodist
University.
His article is, "Traces of the
Worship of the moon god Sin
Among the Early Israelites."
The Jewish tradition talks
about the combination
of the heavenly moon as a part
of the-- most important part
of the Jewish
worship at that time.
There are many symbols and
emblems and paintings showing
Moses in relation to the moon.
And so here is pictures of
a priest lighting a fire
to signal a new moon.
Here, you will see an
illustration of the Israelites
and their worship of the moon--
the prayer to the new moon.
And below, you will see
sanctification of the new moon.
This is from
Amsterdam as far back
as 1723, showing the
important, still,
in the worship of Israel,
for the new moon--
for the moon.
Above, you will see the new
moon etching from a book
back in 1748 showing the Jews
celebrating the new moon.
Today, the new moon is still
very important around the world
to many cultures.
And here we have a picture
of Egypt and the Sinai.
And down toward the
bottom of the Sinai,
there was a huge mountain range.
And so here, we see
a better picture,
where Mount Sinai is
referred to in the area
of the wilderness of Sin.
And Sin, of course,
is the moon god.
Sin is originally the moon
god of the Arabic world.
Allah, and Sin, and
Moses with Yahweh--
it all had to do with the
worship of the moon god Sin.
For some reason, the
ancient Arabic world
placed a very high
respect on the moon.
It's probably based
on some phenomena
that the new moon caused
because the Arabic world
and the ancient world,
in general, realized
that the moon has a huge
effect on our bodies.
It has an effect
on our food supply,
and it pulls the
oceans of the world.
And so on the moon was very
important to the ancient world.
I mean, that is a
whole study in itself
why the ancient Arabic world had
such a reverence for the moon.
They always used the moon
to keep the track of days
because their days
started at sundown--
at 6 o'clock-- because why?
Because that's when
the moon comes out.
While the Christians were
worshiping and having
their holidays and important
times in their religion
on Sun-day--
they were worshipping
the sun of god--
the ancient Arabic world
and the ancient Hebrews
were under the influence
of the moon god.
Christians, as you know,
have a sun calendar.
And their days start
from sun to sun,
while the Hebrews in
the ancient Arabic world
had a lunar calendar, which
their days from sundown
to sundown.
The moon, as it comes up--
and it was referred
to as the lunar
god, who lived in the mountain
and the real Mount Sinai.
Mount Sinai itself was
understood to be a volcano.
And this is why
when Moses goes up
unto the Mount Sinai to get the
new Ten Commandments from god,
he is confronted by the
mountain is on fire.
And so anytime you
have a mountain
on fire, that happens
if you have a volcano.
And so Mount Sinai
was known and is even,
today, recognized as
being probably connected
to volcano worship, also.
And so this is
why Moses goes up,
and he sees the
mountain on fire.
And he talks to god.
And the scriptures-- even in
the new-- in the Old Testament,
the Bible says that the ancient
Hebrews were frightened when
they would hear the thunder in
the mountain because they said
thunder--
was a word we call thunder,
but the ancient Hebrews
said it was the voice of god.
He is talking to them,
and he had lightning.
And that was trying to
get their attention.
So god was very angry and very
upset with the Jewish people
because it was like
a mountain on fire.
Well, of course, we're
talking about a volcano.
So Moses becomes important
in volcano worship also.
Here you will see
Moses-- pictures.
These are all pictures
from Christian and Jewish
publications showing Moses
going up into the mountain.
And it appears to be a volcano.
Well, that's because
it was a volcano.
Here we have some a
Jewish publication
showing the children of Israel
running away when they hear
god thundering in the mountain.
It looks like a volcano.
All of the pictures of Moses
going up into the mountain
to get the Ten
Commandments always
shows the mountain on fire.
Right.
So here we have Moses preparing
to go up in the mountain
to get the new Ten
Commandments from god,
and it appears to be a volcano.
Here as a particular
religious celebration.
It's called the Feast of
the Giving of the Law.
And in the Hebrew
reference works,
you'll look up the
Celebration of the Feast
of the Giving of the Law.
And what do you
see, but a volcano?
So the word volcano comes
from a Latin volcano
god called Vulcan or Vulcanus.
It's derived from an old
Cretan deity Velchanos.
Here is the old
volcano god Vulcan.
And it was always
because the people
were frightened to
death of the thunder
and the lightning that
was caused by the volcano.
And they thought it was
god talking to them.
And so then we talk
about Prometheus
was another ancient
god about the time--
was also a volcano god who
was worshipped and took him
to Greece, while
Yahweh was a volcano
god, who the worshippers
took him back to Judah.
And this is, again,
why Moses encountered
god in the burning bush.
And it seems as not
only the burning bush--
the whole mountain was on fire.
Yahweh was worshipped
by the Jews
as a volcano god
and a lunar deity.
And there's a lot of
interesting connections
with the ancient
world religions that--
it's not that easy to explain
how all of these pieces
came together to form
a particular religion.
It says in one of
the reference books--
it says, "Yet the
original Yahweh
seems to have begun
as a volcano god also.
Mount Sinai, where
Moses encountered him,
was the seat of a Midianite
god who had formerly
dwelt in a volcano.
Here we have Moses
getting the law from god.
And you'll see the
lightning, and the fire,
and the thunder, and
lightning all around him.
We go back to the Book
of Exodus, where we read,
"And the Lord went before them
by day in a pillar of cloud."
Now, this is talking
about the time
when the Jews were
leaving out of Egypt,
and god was going
to be with them
as they went on their journey.
And so it said that god
went before the people,
by day, a pillar of cloud.
He showed that he was with them
by having a cloud follow them
everywhere they went
to lead the way out.
And by night, he would
have a pillar of fire
to give them the indication
that he was with them at night.
They could see the fire.
So they knew god was with them.
In the daytime, it would
be a pillar of cloud.
And at night, it would
be a pillar of fire.
It goes on to say in 22--
it says, "He took not away
the pillar of cloud by day
and the pillar of fire by night
from before the people" to let
them know he was with them.
Well, that's what you get in
a volcano is a pillar of cloud
by day, right?
A pillar of cloud by
day does not necessarily
mean god is there.
It means it's a volcano.
And then you have a
pillar of fire by night.
Of course-- a volcano.
So we go onto read, in different
parts of the Old Testament
Bible, about Yahweh
being a god of fire
and the pillar of
fire, et cetera.
Now, here in Job 38 in the
Old Testament, we read that--
in the footnotes, "The storm.
The clouds.
God's tent."
And so the ancients
believe the clouds
were a tent in which god lived
when he was following them.
So, "The clouds,
God's tent, gather
as the thunder, 'the
voice' of Yahweh roars;
they descend, and God shoots
the 'arrow' of his lightning."
And down in 37, it says,
"his thunderbolts."
"God thunders wonderfully
with his voice,"
showing that the Yahweh
in the Old Testament
was just another volcano god
who thunders with his voice.
And of course, Zeus
was also connected
to the worship of Yahweh because
he was also a god of lightning
and thunder--
the same as Yahweh.
As a matter of fact,
there's a whole story
about the connection between
Zeus and Jehovah because today,
Zeus gives us our word for god--
Deus-- in Latin.
And so Deus is Latin, as god,
is taken from the name of Zeus.
And they even have a canal
called the Suez Canal, which
is Zeus spelled backwards.
So Zeus was very important
back in those ancient days,
too, as a volcano god.
You can see how the ancient
people would be frightened,
thinking that god was
in this holy mountain,
and the mountain's on fire.
We keep in mind that
in the Hebrew language,
it says, "Thunder is called
[NON ENGLISH SPEECH] or voices,
for it is considered
the voice of God."
The Bible, in the
Old Testament, uses
the term for the voice of god.
But it is actually
the word for thunder.
"After it a voice
roared; he thundered
with his voice of
his excellency,"
again just showing that we were
talking about a volcano god
going all the way back
into ancient Egypt.
And "Yahweh was also
called Valcanus."
He was a Vulcan God--
the god of the Vulcans.
Even today, in Hawaii--
the volcano goddess--
the whole idea
of connecting a
god with a volcano
has to do with the sexual
reproduction of the human race.
That's the fire of reproduction.
And so it's the fire that
gives life to the earth.
That's where it
actually came from.
Today, the Jewish religion is
not as dominated by the moon
as it was maybe
thousands of years ago.
So ideas change
from time to time.
Here's another important part of
the Moses story is that Moses--
we are told, when the Israelites
were trying to get out
of the area they were in,
and god was with them,
they didn't have the foods.
And they were starving.
And so they came to Moses and
said, you told us to leave,
and we're following you.
But now, we don't
have any food to eat.
Moses talks to god.
And it's said that god
gave to the Hebrew people
a manna to eat.
And it was spelt M-A-N-N-A--
manna.
And so it was the
manna from heaven.
God said, all right.
I will give you
food for the moment.
You're not going to starve.
God told Moses, tell the people
to go out in the morning--
early morning.
And on the ground, there
will be little round,
white disk--shaped things, and
to eat it because this will be
good for you.
And so that will save
you from starving.
Manna, actually, in
Hebrew means what
is it because the people
didn't know what it was.
It was on the ground.
And it was good to eat.
But they don't know what it is.
Then the Bible goes on
to say that it was small.
Manna was small.
It was round, flaky.
It was white.
It was obviously from
heaven because Moses
said god gave it to them.
And so here we have
pictures of the Israelites,
under Moses' direction,
out in the morning picking
the manna from heaven to eat.
Even in the Bible, it
says, "And when the dew"--
this is in Exodus
talking about this time.
And it says, "And when the
dew that lay on the ground
was dried up in the
morning, behold,
on the face of the
wilderness, there
lay a small, round thing
as small as hoar frost
on the ground.
And when the children
of Israel saw it,
they said to one
another, it is manna,
for they did not
know what it was.
And Moses said to them, 'this
is the bread which the Lord has
given you to eat.'"
We now know that what we were
talking about was mushrooms.
So we're talking about the
ancient people of Israel
were being fed, by
god, mushrooms--
some magic mushroom.
And so you see the
people of Israel,
on the grounds in the
morning, picking mushrooms.
And we know now--
there's been a lot
of books written
about the magic
mushroom, as it's
used in the religious rituals,
and in the Jewish culture,
and in the ancient cultures
of the Middle East.
A lot of people use mushrooms.
Today, like James
Arthur's famous book,
"Mushrooms and Mankind,"
"The Mystery of Manna,"
"Magic Mushrooms," "Psilocybin
Mushrooms of the World,"
"Psychedelic Sacraments"
of the mushroom.
A lot of people do not
know that the Hebrews were
very interested in
this manna from heaven
and have kept the tradition.
And today, mushroom
and eating mushrooms
are still being used
today around the world.
But what we're talking
about, actually,
is the magic mushroom, which
was a psychedelic mushroom.
Eating a mushroom,
we are told, enhances
your ability to
understand things openly,
open your mind up so
you can understand,
and see things, and
experience the spiritual
and the metaphysical
properties of life.
Here is an article in Israel.
It says, "Moses
was high on drugs,
Israeli researcher writes."
There's been quite a
few articles in Israel.
Here's another one from an
Israeli magazine or newspaper.
"Hebrew University researcher:
Moses was tripping out
on Mount Sinai," showing
that even in Israel, they
realize that Moses was not
only the leader of a moon cult,
he was also connected
to a volcano god,
and then also, he
was the one that
is introducing the
use of magic mushrooms
to the Jewish community.
You can actually see the
connection with the so-called
New Age movement today and the
progression of the same old--
as I've said before,
the more we change,
the more we stay the same.
Today, we're talking about
a new age that's coming,
a new time, and a new law, and
a new understanding of god.
And what's part of that
is magic mushrooms, again,
and natural phenomena.
Moses was not the
only one on mushrooms.
We also see mushrooms going
back even further back in time
than the time of Moses.
If you look today, you will see,
in the Vatican, Adam and Eve
supposedly in the Garden of Eden
with the tree of the knowledge
of good and evil.
Actually, in the Vatican,
it shows Adam and Eve
at the mushroom--
taking mushrooms.
There's another Christian
fresco showing amanita muscaria
as the tree of good and
evil in the Garden of Eden.
So according to the
ancient Vatican records,
Adam and Eve were not in
the garden with the tree,
as we've been told.
But they actually show Adam
and Eve eating mushrooms.
And that was opening their
mind to be against god
and to do all kinds of things
that they couldn't do before.
So the magic mushroom has been
around for a long time, too.
John Allegro was
number three man
in the translation of
the Dead Sea Scrolls.
And in it, his book called, "The
Sacred Mushroom and the Cross,"
which is a study of the nature
and the origins of Christianity
within the fertility cult
of the ancient Near East,
in which he shows that
ancient Christians were
on mushrooms, also.
"The Sacred Mushroom
and the Cross"
has been a very famous
book for a long time.
And it opened up a whole new
study in Christianity, also,
about their use of
the magic mushrooms.
Because if you used the
magic mushrooms, yeah.
You'll talk to God, all right.
You'll have some
psychedelic experiences.
And Christians will call
that, I talked with the Lord.
No.
It's just a
psychedelic experience
that mushrooms
have on your mind.
But we see them--
we see this magic mushroom,
which is amanita muscaria.
This particular one is
very potent for giving
the brain a whole new
experience, taking this.
And so we see it
used everywhere.
Many, many religions
in the Middle East,
and India, and Africa
depend on the magic mushroom
and the effect it
gives in the human mind
to put you into an altered
state of consciousness.
So.
Now, there are many symbolisms
connected to all of the stories
coming out of the Old
Testament about Moses.
And one of the
symbols that I think
is interesting as the
headdress that people
in royalty and people in
the Middle East use, which
connects directly to the
idea to Moses introducing
the magic mushroom--
because so many of the priests
were priest of the mushroom.
There have been many books
written about the fact
that they were called
priests of the mushroom.
They wore mushroom headdresses.
Mushroom headdresses
were actually
rather prevalent in
the ancient times.
So Moses was involved
in a lot of things.
A lot of stuff in the Bible
that Moses is involved with--
we just don't understand
the implications of it.
I'm Jordan Maxwell, and
thank you for watching.